---
author: Polybar Team
account: polybar
title: Polybar 3.3.0 Release
excerpt: We added pseudo-transparency and fixed a bunch of bugs
---

## It's finally here

As a small Christmas present, we bring you the long awaited version 3.3.0 of 
polybar!

Over the last 5 months 22 of you contributed to polybar and have made changes 
that are now in this latest release.  Altogether 95 files have been changed, 
totaling in 1322 added and 885 deleted lines

We fixed 9 bugs (that we know of). Most notably, we were able to solve a 
longstanding issue with the tray overlapping parts of the bar 
([`#1392`](https://github.com/jaagr/polybar/pull/1392)).

The newly added features seem to mostly make the modules more expressive, there
have been loads of new config options added to various modules.

You can read the full changelog on 
[github](https://github.com/jaagr/polybar/releases/tag/3.3.0).

### Pseudo-Transparency
The most notable and biggest addition to polybar was support for pseudo-
transparency ([`#595`](https://github.com/jaagr/polybar/pull/595)), which
[@bennofs](https://github.com/bennofs) implemented. With it polybar can have a 
transparent background without the need for a compositor like compton. With 
pseudo-transparency the bar's background is composited against your desktop 
wallpaper instead of taking other windows that could be behind the bar into 
account. That's why it's called __*pseudo*__-transparency: If there is a window 
under a transparent bar, you won't see the window through the bar, only your 
wallpaper.

You can enable pseudo-transparency by setting `pseudo-transparency = true` in
the `[settings]` section.

Polybar's system tray now always uses pseudo-transparency because of complexity
reasons and it seems to have fixed a few rendering bugs.

Have fun with the new features! Happy Holidays and Merry Christmas!  
--- The Polybar Team
