---
author: Polybar Team
account: polybar
title: Polybar 3.4.0 Release
excerpt: A more stable compilation experience and a highly customizable xkeyboard module
---

### Looking Back

Wow, it's already been half a year since 
[3.3.0](https://polybar.github.io/2018/12/23/Release-3.3.0.html) was released!

In exactly 100 commits 19 different people have contributed to this new release.
We had 126 changed files with 1441 added and 1087 deleted lines.
In total 8 bugs were fixed and we added 8 new config options.

There haven't been too many big changes, the biggest one probably is the new
customizability of the `xkeyboard` module which we showcase
[below](#new-xkeyboard-options).
We changed a lot of the internals of our build process to make it more reliable
though.
Until now we had the problem that when compilers introduced new flags to detect 
possibly wrong code and emit warnings for it, polybar would fail to build even
with those compiler versions. This is no more, when compilers are updated it
will no longer break your polybar builds.

You can read the full changelog on 
[github](https://github.com/polybar/polybar/releases/tag/3.4.0).

### Migration Guide

When updating from 3.3.X to 3.4.0 your configs should still work the same as
before. 

We have deprecated the `label-indicator` key in the `xkeyboard` module in favor 
of `label-indicator-on`, they both do the same though and polybar will warn you
that `label-indicator` is deprecated.

### New `xkeyboard` options

In 3.4.0 you can now heavily customize how layouts and indicators are 
displayed in the `xkeyboard` module.
For example if you have the following in your config:

``` ini
layout-icon-default = ¯\_(ツ)_/¯
layout-icon-0 = us;U

indicator-icon-default = ""
indicator-icon-0 = caps lock;;CL

label-layout = %icon%

label-indicator-on = %name% %icon%
label-indicator-off = %icon%
```

The module will display `U` if you use the us layout and `¯\_(ツ)_/¯` otherwise.
If you have caps lock on, it will show `Caps Lock CL` and for other 
indicators it will only display the name. You can even completely control what
to display for certain indicators, so if you add 
`label-capslock-on-numlock = %icon%`, it would only display `CL`
when caps lock is enabled and ignores `label-indicator-on`. This by the way 
works for all indicators.

You can find the full specifications of these new features 
[wiki](https://github.com/polybar/polybar/wiki/Module:-xkeyboard).

### Next Steps

We have big plans for 3.5.0. We want to change our release workflow because our
current one can't really be considered "best practice".

With the help of a new co-maintainer 
[**@Lomadriel**](https://github.com/Lomadriel/) we want to make polybar more
easily packagable which should help polybar get packaged for more distros.

We also want modules be more customizable and behave more uniformly when it
comes to `click-*` actions.

If we have time we might even add new capabilities to the config syntax.

Now go ahead get update your polybar! You can find the new source tarball
[here](https://github.com/polybar/polybar/releases/tag/3.4.0).

--- The Polybar Team
