---
author: Polybar Team
account: polybar
title: Polybar 3.7.0 Release
excerpt: The new old tray module
---

### The Numbers

* **24** contributors (**17** first-time)
* **120** pull-requests
* **267** commits
* **230** files changed
* **8250** lines added
* **5067** lines deleted
* **45** issues closed
* **27** bugs fixed

### What's New?

The big addition in this release is a new shiny tray module described below.

On top of that we have added a bunch of smaller features and fixes.
The full changelog can be found on the [release page][tag-3.7.0], but I want to
highlight a few here.

Restacking the bar window (defining its position in the window stack with
`wm-restack`) has gotten more powerful with two new possible stacking
strategies: `bottom`, `ewmh`.
The `bottom` strategy is the same as the old `generic` strategy and puts
polybar below all other windows.
`ewmh` puts the bar above the window set in the `_NET_SUPPORTING_WM_CHECK`
hint (if it is set); this is a window created by the window manager and, in
some WMs, appears below other user windows, but above windows created by the WM
(e.g. dedicated wallpaper windows).
Finally, the `generic` strategy has been changed to first try the `ewmh`
strategy and fall back to the `bottom` strategy.

The `internal/temperature` module now has a `zone-type` setting where the
thermal zone can be selected by name instead of by number (through
`thermal-zone`) or full path (through `hwmon-path`).
This makes it easier to consistenly select the desired thermal sensor because
both the number or full path of the sensor may change between reboots (e.g. if
the hardware configuration changes).

### Tray Module

This new module has the same underlying functionality as the old tray (this is
not a `StatusNotifier`/`AppIndicator` tray) with the added benefit that it can
be positioned just like a module instead of being restricted to the bar edges
or center.

In addition, we have almost completely rewritten the handling of tray icons.
This effectively fixes any issues regarding the positioning of the tray and it
appearing above fullscreen windows (when the bar itself does not).

Read the [tracking issue](https://github.com/polybar/polybar/issues/2689) and
all the issues it links to (especially
[`#2595`](https://github.com/polybar/polybar/pull/2595) and
[`#2609`](https://github.com/polybar/polybar/pull/2609)) for the whole story.

Using the new tray module is as simple as adding a new module with the
following contents (this is the entire tray configuration I am using right
now):

```ini
[module/tray]
type = internal/tray
```

The old way of adding a tray to the bar is deprecated, will no longer receive
any bug fixes, and everyone should migrate to the new tray module.


### Migration Guide

Starting with version 3.7, the migration guide now lives in the [readthedocs
documentation][migration-guide].

### Next Steps

As always I have big plans for the future of polybar.
However, my life has gotten busier this year and I have found less time to work
on polybar.
This will likely not change in the foreseeable future and as a result
development on polybar will necessarily slow down.
In fact it already has; one reason why this release took so long to get out.

Nevertheless, I still want to work on polybar, albeit more slowly.
It will on be things I enjoy and not necessarily features that are much
requested by the community.

Until next time --- Patrick

[post-3.6.0]: https://polybar.github.io/2022/03/01/Release-3.6.0.html
[tag-3.7.0]: https://github.com/polybar/polybar/releases/tag/3.7.0
[milestone-3.8.0]: https://github.com/polybar/polybar/milestone/15
[migration-guide]: https://polybar.readthedocs.io/en/stable/migration/3.7/index.html
